README.md, before:

# Rust Playground

This is the home of the [Rust Playground][real],
also [hosted by Integer 32][us].

[real]: https://play.rust-lang.org/
[us]: https://play.integer32.com/

## What's it do?

The playground allows you to experiment with Rust before you install
it locally, or in any other case where you might not have the compiler
available.

It has a number of features, including:

1. A nice, unobtrusive editor with syntax highlighting.
1. The ability to compile in debug or release mode against the current
   stable, beta, or nightly version of Rust.
1. The top 100 popular crates (ranked by all-time downloads) and
   their dependencies are available for use. Just add `extern foo`
   to use them!
1. The ability to quickly load and save your code to a
   GitHub [Gist][gist] and share it with your friends.
1. [rustfmt][] and [Clippy][clippy] can be run against the source code.
1. The ability to see the LLVM IR, assembly, or Rust MIR for the
   source code.

[gist]: https://gist.github.com/
[rustfmt]: https://github.com/rust-lang-nursery/rustfmt
[clippy]: https://github.com/Manishearth/rust-clippy

## Architecture

A [React][react] frontend communicates with an [Iron][iron]
backend. [Docker][docker] containers are used to provide the various
compilers and tools as well as to help isolate them.

We hope that this frontend and backend stack is comfortable to
potential contributors! If you are interested in contributing, please
feel free to ask a question and we might even be able to point out
some useful resources.

[react]: https://facebook.github.io/react/
[iron]: http://ironframework.io/
[docker]: https://www.docker.com/

## Resource Limits

### Network

There is no network connection between the compiler container and the
outside world.

### Memory

The amount of memory the compiler and resulting executable use is
limited by the container.

### Execution Time

The total compilation and execution time is limited by the container.

### Disk

This sandbox **does not** provide any disk space limits. It is
suggested to run the server such that the temp directory is a
space-limited. One bad actor may fill up this shared space, but it
should be cleaned when that request ends.

## Security Hall of Fame

A large set of thanks go to those individuals who have helped by
reporting security holes or other attack vectors against the
Playground. Each report helps us make the Playground better!

* Preliminary sandbox testing (PID limit) by Stefan O'Rear.

If you'd like to perform tests that you think might disrupt service of
the Playground, get in touch and we can create an isolated clone to
perform tests on! Once fixed, you can choose to be credited here.

## Deployment

### Amazon EC2 (Amazon Linux)

Here's an example session. This could definitely be improved and
automated.

#### Dependencies (as root)

```
yum update -y
yum install -y docker git

# Use a production-quality storage driver that doesn't leak disk space
vim /etc/sysconfig/docker
# Add to OPTIONS: --storage-driver=overlay

# Allow controlling the PID limit
vim /etc/cgconfig.conf
# Add:    pids       = /cgroup/pids;

service docker start
usermod -a -G docker ec2-user

fallocate -l 1G /swap.fs
chmod 0600 /swap.fs
mkswap /swap.fs
```

#### Set aside disk space (as root)
```
fallocate -l 512M /playground.fs
device=$(losetup -f --show /playground.fs)
mkfs -t ext3 -m 1 -v $device
mkdir /mnt/playground
```

#### Configure disk mountpoints (as root)
```
cat >>/etc/fstab <<EOF
/swap.fs        none            swap   sw       0   0
/playground.fs /mnt/playground  ext3   loop     0   0
EOF
```

Reboot the instance at this point.

#### Get the code
```
git clone https://github.com/integer32llc/rust-playground.git
cd rust-playground
```

#### Build the containers
```
cd compiler/
./build.sh
cd ../
```

#### Set a crontab to rebuild the containers

```
crontab -e
```

```
0 0 * * * cd /home/ec2-user/rust-playground/compiler && ./build.sh
0 * * * * docker images -q --filter "dangling=true" | xargs docker rmi
```

#### Build the UI backend
```
cd ui
docker run -it --rm -v $PWD:/ui --workdir /ui --entrypoint /bin/bash rust-nightly
rustup target add x86_64-unknown-linux-musl
cargo build --target=x86_64-unknown-linux-musl --release
# exit docker
cd ..
```

#### Build the UI frontend
```
cd ui/frontend
docker run -it --rm -v $PWD:/ui --workdir /ui --entrypoint /bin/bash node
yarn
NODE_ENV=production yarn run build
# exit docker
cd ../..
```

#### Run the server
```
cd ui
sudo \
  TMPDIR=/mnt/playground \
  RUST_LOG=info \
  PLAYGROUND_UI_ADDRESS=0.0.0.0 \
  PLAYGROUND_UI_PORT=80 \
  PLAYGROUND_UI_ROOT=$PWD/frontend/build \
  ./target/x86_64-unknown-linux-musl/release/ui
```

## Development

### Build the UI
```
cd ui/frontend
yarn
yarn run watch # Will rebuild and watch for changes
```

If you don't need the backend running because you are only making
basic HTML/CSS/JS changes, directly open in your browser the built
`ui/frontend/build/index.html`.

### Build and run the server
```
cd ui
RUST_LOG=ui=debug \
PLAYGROUND_UI_ROOT=$PWD/frontend/build/ \
cargo run
```

### Build the containers
```
cd compiler
./build.sh
```

## License

Licensed under either of
 * Apache License, Version 2.0 ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
 * MIT license ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
at your option.

Commit message:

Mention crates from cookbook are available

README.md, after:

# Rust Playground

This is the home of the [Rust Playground][real],
also [hosted by Integer 32][us].

[real]: https://play.rust-lang.org/
[us]: https://play.integer32.com/

## What's it do?

The playground allows you to experiment with Rust before you install
it locally, or in any other case where you might not have the compiler
available.

It has a number of features, including:

1. A nice, unobtrusive editor with syntax highlighting.
1. The ability to compile in debug or release mode against the current
   stable, beta, or nightly version of Rust.
1. The top 100 popular crates (ranked by all-time downloads), crates
   that are part of the [Rust Cookbook][] and all of their
   dependencies are available for use. Just add `extern foo` to use
   them!
1. The ability to quickly load and save your code to a
   GitHub [Gist][gist] and share it with your friends.
1. [rustfmt][] and [Clippy][clippy] can be run against the source code.
1. The ability to see the LLVM IR, assembly, or Rust MIR for the
   source code.

[Rust Cookbook]: https://rust-lang-nursery.github.io/rust-cookbook/
[gist]: https://gist.github.com/
[rustfmt]: https://github.com/rust-lang-nursery/rustfmt
[clippy]: https://github.com/Manishearth/rust-clippy

## Architecture

A [React][react] frontend communicates with an [Iron][iron]
backend. [Docker][docker] containers are used to provide the various
compilers and tools as well as to help isolate them.

We hope that this frontend and backend stack is comfortable to
potential contributors! If you are interested in contributing, please
feel free to ask a question and we might even be able to point out
some useful resources.

[react]: https://facebook.github.io/react/
[iron]: http://ironframework.io/
[docker]: https://www.docker.com/

## Resource Limits

### Network

There is no network connection between the compiler container and the
outside world.

### Memory

The amount of memory the compiler and resulting executable use is
limited by the container.

### Execution Time

The total compilation and execution time is limited by the container.

### Disk

This sandbox **does not** provide any disk space limits. It is
suggested to run the server such that the temp directory is a
space-limited. One bad actor may fill up this shared space, but it
should be cleaned when that request ends.

## Security Hall of Fame

A large set of thanks go to those individuals who have helped by
reporting security holes or other attack vectors against the
Playground. Each report helps us make the Playground better!

* Preliminary sandbox testing (PID limit) by Stefan O'Rear.

If you'd like to perform tests that you think might disrupt service of
the Playground, get in touch and we can create an isolated clone to
perform tests on! Once fixed, you can choose to be credited here.

## Deployment

### Amazon EC2 (Amazon Linux)

Here's an example session. This could definitely be improved and
automated.

#### Dependencies (as root)

```
yum update -y
yum install -y docker git

# Use a production-quality storage driver that doesn't leak disk space
vim /etc/sysconfig/docker
# Add to OPTIONS: --storage-driver=overlay

# Allow controlling the PID limit
vim /etc/cgconfig.conf
# Add:    pids       = /cgroup/pids;

service docker start
usermod -a -G docker ec2-user

fallocate -l 1G /swap.fs
chmod 0600 /swap.fs
mkswap /swap.fs
```

#### Set aside disk space (as root)
```
fallocate -l 512M /playground.fs
device=$(losetup -f --show /playground.fs)
mkfs -t ext3 -m 1 -v $device
mkdir /mnt/playground
```

#### Configure disk mountpoints (as root)
```
cat >>/etc/fstab <<EOF
/swap.fs        none            swap   sw       0   0
/playground.fs /mnt/playground  ext3   loop     0   0
EOF
```

Reboot the instance at this point.

#### Get the code
```
git clone https://github.com/integer32llc/rust-playground.git
cd rust-playground
```

#### Build the containers
```
cd compiler/
./build.sh
cd ../
```

#### Set a crontab to rebuild the containers

```
crontab -e
```

```
0 0 * * * cd /home/ec2-user/rust-playground/compiler && ./build.sh
0 * * * * docker images -q --filter "dangling=true" | xargs docker rmi
```

#### Build the UI backend
```
cd ui
docker run -it --rm -v $PWD:/ui --workdir /ui --entrypoint /bin/bash rust-nightly
rustup target add x86_64-unknown-linux-musl
cargo build --target=x86_64-unknown-linux-musl --release
# exit docker
cd ..
```

#### Build the UI frontend
```
cd ui/frontend
docker run -it --rm -v $PWD:/ui --workdir /ui --entrypoint /bin/bash node
yarn
NODE_ENV=production yarn run build
# exit docker
cd ../..
```

#### Run the server
```
cd ui
sudo \
  TMPDIR=/mnt/playground \
  RUST_LOG=info \
  PLAYGROUND_UI_ADDRESS=0.0.0.0 \
  PLAYGROUND_UI_PORT=80 \
  PLAYGROUND_UI_ROOT=$PWD/frontend/build \
  ./target/x86_64-unknown-linux-musl/release/ui
```

## Development

### Build the UI
```
cd ui/frontend
yarn
yarn run watch # Will rebuild and watch for changes
```

If you don't need the backend running because you are only making
basic HTML/CSS/JS changes, directly open in your browser the built
`ui/frontend/build/index.html`.

### Build and run the server
```
cd ui
RUST_LOG=ui=debug \
PLAYGROUND_UI_ROOT=$PWD/frontend/build/ \
cargo run
```

### Build the containers
```
cd compiler
./build.sh
```

## License

Licensed under either of
 * Apache License, Version 2.0 ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
 * MIT license ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
at your option.
